Welcome back.
Let's talk about something that I really really love.
And it's called lambda expressions and lambda is actually a computer science term that really is compatible
with this idea of functional programming.
You see lambda expressions in Python are one time anonymous functions that you don't need more than
once.
What does that mean.
Well lambda expressions are really really useful when you're using them for functions that A you only
use once.
Remember how we talked about functions are useful because we can define them and then use these functions
over and over and thus save us from copy and pasting code.
Well lambda functions are for those occasions where we have a function but we only need to use it once.
And then the second part is that they're anonymous functions.
That is because we only use them once.
We don't need to have a name for them because I mean we don't really need to store them anywhere on
our machines.
I just want to use it once.
Just run it and then I'm done with it.
Just throw it away.
So how does a lambda function look like a lambda function looks like this.
We say lambda in python.
Let me just add a bit of space here just so we can see we say lambda and you can see that it's highlighted
blue and then I'm going to say a parameter that this function is going to get and then a in and then
some sort of a function here and the parameter or instead of function it'll be some sort of a manipulation
that we do.
So let's say action that we want to take on a parameter.
All right.
This still looks confusing.
So let's actually try to implemented in our functions that we've created so let's say multiply by two
is one of those things that we're only going to use once.
I only want to multiply by two.
This my list and then I'm done with it.
I don't need to save it to memory it's just extra piece of code I don't need this.
How can we do it.
Well let's say we have the map function back here and let's turn it into a list
and for now I'm just going to minimize these.
So we only focus on the multiply by two.
And here let's go back to multiply by two remember how we had it before my list.
And we don't need the third parameter just like that.
Now with a lambda function I can say hey I don't need to create a whole new function I'm only going
to use it once.
Let's just remove this entirely and instead of using multiply by two I'm going to say lambda and here
I'm going to give it the parameter what parameter am I going to receive.
Well I'm going to receive an item from my list and then in here what do we want to do to my list.
Well I want to multiply it by two.
All right.
Could this work.
Let's give it a go.
I'm going to run
Whoa did you see that.
I didn't even use multiply by 2.
As a matter of fact I can just delete it.
And if I click run everything still works.
Now why is this.
Remember lambda expressions are one time anonymous functions.
There's no name attached to this function.
This is the function right here that you don't need to run more than once.
So once the interpreter runs this line of code it doesn't remember this.
It just forgets about it but it performs the action for us.
In our case we're saying hey I want to create a lambda expression I'm going to take an item from my
list and then I'm going to multiply that item times two.
And this automatically returns it again the order that we do is lambda then we give it the parameter
Colin and then the action we want to take.
In our case I'll be paranoid and whatever action we want to do like so in our case.
Item times two and this automatically returns.
How cool is that.
This is a really nice feature of Python to keep your code really nice and clean and not clutter with
all these functions and other languages might not have lambdas but they are sometimes called anonymous
functions.
Again something that we've discussed why they're anonymous.
They're just like normal functions and even behave like them but we only use them once and they don't
have any.
We can see here that it makes things a little bit cleaner.
What if we tried to do filter now with a lambda function.
Well if you want you can pause the video and try yourself but it should be fairly easy right.
If I do filter I can do lambda item and then item well just copy this so the action that we want to
take on the item is this and if I run it again it works.
How nice is that no longer need this function either very very nice.
What about reduce can we use reduce with Lambda.
Sure why not.
Let's say here will say reduce we're going to remove the list from here because we're just producing
a single value.
I'm going to say lambda item remember reduce accepts two parameters.
The accumulator and then the item so I can just give it to parameters like this and then say what do
we want to do.
Well I just want to add accumulator with the item so if I do my list here like this and I click Run
check that out.
That works as well.
How cool is that.
Again we no longer need the accumulator and now we just have one line functions that I can just run
and immediately reduce the list very very cool.
We're gonna be exploring lambdas a little bit more especially in the comprehension part of the course.
So if you're still not 100 percent on them don't worry we'll have more use cases and why they're useful
later on in the course.
But lambda expressions I really really like they make your code really really small.
However they do make the code a little bit less readable so it is a tradeoff where you can get really
clever with lambda expressions but make your code really confusing to others.
So you do want to be careful.
For now we're done.
I'll see in the next video by.